Spring Hill Board of Mayor and Alderman
will come to order at 5:45pm Let the
record reflect that all the members are
present except for Alderman Canipari. At
this time, we're going to adjourn for
executive session.
Yes, it's my car. Get into our voting
screen.
Board of Mayor Alderman Mean will
reconvene at 6:10 from the executive
session. Let the record show that Alderman
Kanapari is now present. Mr. Eric Droke,
if you could please lead us in a word of
prayer.
Let's all bow. Father. I thank you for the
opportunity, Lord, to be together again
tonight. I thank you, God, that you've
kept us safe. It's been a dicey era few
days. And I thank you, Lord, that you've
kept us safe and you brought us back
together, God. I just want to thank you,
Lord, for the attitude of service, Lord,
that we witnessed over the last few days.
So many people have volunteered and given
and sacrificed and put themselves in
harm's way, God, to serve their community
through the ice and through the storms.
And I'm just grateful for that. God, I ask
that you would help our hearts to line up
with their attitudes and their actions, to
have an attitude of how can I help? And I
feel like if we can do that, Father, we
will do what you've called us to do, which
is to bear one another's burdens and to
serve one another. And in that way, God,
we could serve you, God, I ask that you
would just give blessings tonight. Direct
our hearts and direct our decisions. For
your glory, in Jesus name we pray. Amen.
Wonder if we could all stand for the
pledge? I pledge allegiance to the flag of
the United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Thank you, Mr. Dro. Looking for a motion
on the agenda.
Vice Mayor Linville move to approve the
agenda.
Motion to approve.
Second.
Second by Alderman Murray. Are there any
edits to the agenda? Seeing none. Those in
favor of the agenda, please say aye. Aye.
Agenda is approved 9 to 0. As far as
mayor's comments tonight, I'm going to
echo a little bit of what Mr. Droak just
said. I'm sure in acknowledgments, other
people say the same things here as well.
But obviously police, fire, public works,
all worked extremely hard over the past
week. I also want to recognize the
administrative staff, the EOC team, the
communications team, and the utility plant
operators. So I've had many, many, many
comments from citizens commending you all
for your work and want to make sure that
that's heard and understood from y'. All.
Mr. Napier, any comments, any department
heads, any comments, acknowledgments from
the board? All right. Seeing none. Is
there any citizen comment? This Even.
All right.
Seeing none public hearing items. We have
none consent items. Ms. Goad, please.
Consider Resolution 2631 to authorize the
purchase of police vehicles and equipment.
Consider Resolution 2632 to approve
renewal of contract for annual plumbing
services. Consider Resolution 2633 to
approve renewal of contract for annual
electric Service. Consider Resolution 2634
to approve renewal of contract for annual
roofing services. Consider Resolution 2635
H VAC services. Consider Resolution 2636
authorizing the purchase and
implementation of an additional on call
phone for Spring Hill water to provide
separate dedication of on call phones for
water distribution and sewer collections.
Consider Resolution 2637 to amend
Resolution 24226 to authorize an
additional task order with Thomas and
Hutton for evaluation of a sewer lift
station associated with I60 interchange
interceptor project. Consider resolution
2638 to approve recommendation of projects
for the neighborhood sidewalk program for
fiscal year 2026 fall. Consider resolution
2639 to establish performance bond and
establish a maintenance bond for Sanctuary
Bluff Newport Royal Road. Consider
resolution 2640 to amend resolution 25165
to increase purchase order in the amount
of $7200 for a total authorized amount of
$15200. Consider resolution 2644 to
approve a professional services agreement
with BTA Consulting for pay plan update
conversion to a step up pay structure.
Thank you, Ms. Goad.
Move to approve the consent agenda.
Motion by Vice Mayor Linville.
Second.
Second by Alderman Murray. Please vote on
the consent agenda. Consent agenda is
approved 9 to 0. Previous business? There
is none. New business item number one.
Consider resolution 26441 to adopt a fund
balance policy and repeal prior adopted
fund balance policies. Ms. Holden, please.
There have been no changes from the work
session. I will be happy to answer any
questions, ma'.
Am. Any comments, Vice Mayor Linville?
Mayor, I make a motion to approve
resolution 2641.
Motion by Vice Mayor Linville.
Second.
Second by Alderman Murray.
Yeah. One quick comment. We talked about
this at budget and finance advisory
committee today and unanimously suggested
to the board to to adopt this.
Thank you, Vice Mayor. Any comments or
questions from the rest of the board? See
none. Please vote on Resolution 2641. Item
is approved 9 to 0. New business item
number two. Consider resolution 2642
authorizing a true up of fund balance
classifications and reimbursement to the
general fund from the Parkland commitment
for Hurt Road Parkland acquisition.
Mayor, I make a motion to approve
resolution 2642 motion by Vice Mayor
Linville second. Second by Alderman
Murray. Ms. Holden, anything?
This is what we discussed in the work
session. And then I followed up with you
all an email about those details. I'll be
happy to answer any questions.
Thank you, Ms. Holden.
Vice Mayor Lindell again on this one. We
talked about this at BFAC today and made a
unanimous recommendation to the board to
adopt this, the resolution.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. Any
additional comments or questions from the
board,
please vote on Resolution 2642. Item is
approved 9 to 0. New business item number
three. Consider resolution 2643 to approve
funds for phase two Walnut street skate
Park.
Mayor, make a. Make a motion. Excuse me.
To approve resolution 2643 to approve
funds for phase two Walnut street skate
park.
Motion by Alderman Murray.
Second.
Second by Vice Mayor Linville. Alderman
Murray, it's your item.
Yeah, I just wanted to bring back
resolution. Like I mentioned in the last
meeting, there was couple of different
items on there. So I wanted to make sure
that we brought back just a single item to
have before you tonight and just wanted to
share that when looking at this project.
This is something that we have been
working on. I GUESS it started 10 years
ago. It gives us an opportunity to finish
a project that could have great impact on
our communities. You saw some last meeting
who came out to maybe speak toward it. And
so I'm really just trying to make sure
that it's something we want to do, that we
get it completed. And I also think there's
some potential additional revenue that can
be brought in from tournaments and events
and things like that. So just wanted to
share that.
Thank you. Alderman Murray, comments or
questions from the board? Vice Mayor
Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I think this could be a
question for staff. I was looking at the
text of the resolution. It outlines that
the $950,000 was coming from undesignated
and unencumbered funds from the general
fund. Is this essentially is the ask that
it would come from unassigned fund
balance?
With that language? Yes.
Okay.
I think with it coming from unassigned
fund balance, and even if it was from
Parkland, the Parkland fund or allocation
that the board has made, we're about to
kick off 27 budget cycle. We talked about
that at BFAC today for a request that. For
requests that's being requested from
undesignated fund balance, I think that
needs to be evaluated within the scope of
all the other requests that are being made
before the board. Because we're so close
to that process. I have a hard time
getting behind going ahead and putting
that in front of the other things we'd be
considering as well. So I would be open to
a potential deferral or unfortunately, I
wouldn't be able to support this tonight.
Thank you. Vice Mayor Linville, who was
first. Alderman Hartwell. Alderman
Hartwell. Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Murray. We
discussed a couple of the different things
in BFAC this afternoon. Number one is that
we are looking out or looking at closing
the year in a deficit because of our
recent purchase. So I don't know that the
way that this is written and where the
money's coming from, that it would be wise
of this board to take action with the way
that it's written to echo Vice Mayor's
comments in regard to the budget season
and then even some requests that I had
made at the end of bfac, which I'll get
into at roundtable. I don't want to vote
against this, so probably here in a
moment. If you do not, I will ask for
deferral.
Thank you, Alderman Fuqua. Alderman
Hartwell, thank you.
I. I wanted to hesitate for a minute
because he and I had been talking about
just how the budgets work in general our
last session when we were just wanting to
pull it from the current funding that we
had for Parks and Recs, or it was one
section that we were going to pull it
from. But do we. I guess my question is,
Rebecca, do we have a fund where we could
allocate, we could pull it from anything
else and say, okay, well, we have this
much we can use. Let's just say we wanted
to give someone a raise, where would we
get that money from? We would have to pull
it out of a general fund. Right. So can we
allocate different things in different
ways where we could say, okay, this is how
much we can give you? This is all we have
to work with right now. If we can't pull
it from the. The funding that we
originally were going to pull it from.
So that's a loaded question.
So if.
If you were to give someone a
raise and it costs $200, for example,
typically the department can find that
within their budget and move things around
and say, I can do without this training
to cover for this employee's race.
So typically, it's by amount. With this
amount that you're looking at,
you're not going to be able to
squeeze it out of current budgeted items
in the general fund.
And I think that's why the request is for
it to come out of unassigned fund balance,
if that makes sense, if that helps.
Thank you. Ms. Holden, Mr. Napier, to add
on to that, if you're okay with that,
Alderman harwell.
Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Alderman. Thanks
for the question. The only thing that I
would add to Ms. Holden's response would
be that it would be super, super rare that
we would ever recommend using operational
money to do a capital project, and vice
versa. It would be even more rare that we
would use one time money or money that we
would otherwise use for capital projects
to balance the general fund budgets. So
it's rare that I would ever see the two
intermingle and recommend to you
accordingly.
Alderman Hartwell, the floor is still
yours.
Okay, thank you. This question is for you
with the current residents that use the
skate park. I know that they're very hands
on. They want it to grow, all the above.
And we have a special YouTuber that. That
is there as well. Right. He also probably.
If. If he's that popular, he probably gets
paid for ads and all that good stuff. I'm.
I'm going to assume that because I went to
research him and tons of ads popped up. So
my question with that would be, if he's
benefiting from our skate park, we don't
charge him. Right. As what. As we would
charge any other resident to reserve the
pavilion or any of that. Is that at all to
him or to anyone that uses it? Is there.
If they. He also said that he. I'm sorry,
the baby. I want to just go pick him up.
Where is he? Here. It's okay.
He's.
I'm just reminiscing on his conversation,
y'.
All.
Sorry. He said that he taught classes as
well. He's not teaching those classes for
free. So a lot of things that they're
doing in the skate park, they're
benefiting from it financially. But we're
having to. To take the L for it, not take
the L. But these are things that they're
supposed to be expecting. They haven't
gotten it yet, but they're still pulling
at us, but they're not giving back to us
at the same time, if that makes sense.
So thank you for the question. So to
answer the first part of it that I
understood, none of our users are charged
to use any of the parks or the amenities
within the parks. It is a benefit that is
provided to the community for them to use
at their leisure. So even if you were to
rent a shelter for a birthday party or
family gathering, whatever it is, there's
no cost for that. It is a service, a city
service that the city provides to the
taxpaying residents of this city. So
there, I'm sure there are lots of people
who do lots of things in the parks that
may or may not benefit them if we know
about them. If it is someone asking us
permission to do certain things, we do
have requirements and city policies that
we follow to work with them on that. But
even at that level, let's say someone was
going to do a soccer clinic for a week or
something like that, we would, we would
get some information, some things that we
need, but we still don't charge for that
ability to be able to do that. That goes
for our leagues as well as the individual
user. Is there anything else that I did
not cover?
Okay.
Thank you, Alderman Hartwell, Alderman
Jimenez.
Thank you, Mayor. I just want to echo what
the rest of the BFAC board members said.
We really need to true this budget up
first to figure out is there enough money,
are we going to have the money to complete
some of the projects that are ahead of
this? The last thing I want to see, and
this is something that we talked about at
bfac. We start a project only to not end
it completed, right? And so if we get in a
position where we say, hey, $950,000 and
we figure out we need money elsewhere, we
stop. We're $400,000 into it. Now we have
a project that's halfway completed that
does more harm than good. I want the kids
to have a place to enjoy themselves, but
we need to make sure that when we commit
to completing and doing something, we're
capable of committing and completing it
all the way through. There's a lot of
other really big items on this that the
board has to get done and these capital
improvements that need to be completed
that we voted on as a board to prioritize.
And so with that being said, again, I want
to see this done. We just have to find a
way to do it that we're not stopping other
things that we agreed to as a board to
complete first.
Thank you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman
Davis.
Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to echo what
Alderman Fuquay said. I want to say yes to
this, but I also want to support
what
we're doing and make sure that we do sure
up things. But I would love to see. You
know, I agree with Alderman Jimendez as
well. You know, we, we need to have this
for the children. We, this is part of
Spring Hill living, having nice parks. We
don't want to put a park together and then
halfway finish it. So I do believe we
probably need to consider putting some
kind of fund together at least in the
future, if not now, because we don't have
the funds to do it, that will help us
start to finish projects, especially when
it comes to things that are facilities for
the community to use. So I want to say
yes, but right now I don't feel like that
would be the right thing to do, knowing
that we're pulling from somewhere else.
And I don't. I'm not 100% sure of where
we're pulling from right now.
Thank you, Alderman Davis, Alderman
Canapari.
Thanks, Mayor. I. I'm just going to. I am
also in favor of bringing this to Spring
Hill. I think the enjoyment, where we did
a study a while back that said that one
thing Spring Hill was missing was kind of
things for the kids to do. And this looks
like a perfect thing, and it attracts
many, many teens and many kids. So it's
something that really needs to be done. As
I want to remind the board that
resolutions can be amended. Like 23, 113
can be amended. Amended, because when we
drafted it, we made a mistake in the
wording. We said the purpose was for
parkland acquisition. The purpose was
really to increase the enjoyment of our
community, especially the teens. So if we
go back and think about why we actually
wanted to buy the land and why we set up a
fund, a sinking fund to do that, we would
all agree that the purpose behind 113, 23,
113, was the enjoyment of the kids. And
that includes modifying what we already
have. So my take on it is that we're
missing the boat. If we're going to push
this again, kick this can down the road,
because it's not going to make it the next
time either. We'll find something to
replace it with. We have an opportunity
and we have a price. What we need to DO is
amend 23, 113 to include the words and
modifications to improve, because that was
the real purpose of us looking to buy
parkland. Okay. So I'm taking that as my
take on this. And as far as Alderman
Hartwell. Yes, it's true. They make money.
And they must be like a.10% of the people
who use the park, the skate park, 90% of
them don't make any money. They just go to
enjoy it. And it's free. So we can't
compare apples and oranges. Yeah, they
make money on it, but they're entitled to
do that. And according to what they told
us, they have volunteered hours to fix on
their own accord and put their own time
and money and effort into that. Maybe it's
not enough to 950,000, but it is enough.
They didn't have to do it at all. So
that's where I go. And tonight I'm voting
yes, unless it's deferred.
Vice Mayor Lindvall, I haven't had my turn
yet, so I'm going to take it. Before go
back to you for the second time, I just
want the board to recall. Back in April,
we said we're going to put together a
reoccurring CIP process.
Again.
We had really gotten away from that
process as a city where we could sit and
plan out our top capital needs and have a
financial plan that comes with it. So in
April, we tasked staff to get all of the
department needs from all the various
departments pulled together. 30 plus
projects. Right. We had a special call
meeting in September, went through all the
projects, went back individually ranked
them. Staff compiled the rankings. This
came in 25th out of 29. I have not heard
anybody explain why we are now treating
this project separately from the rest of
the 29. If you put any value in the
planning and the financial planning of the
CIP process, this doesn't need to be
deferred. This needs to be voted down. I
think it's really offensive that we're
taking a project that's ranked so low and
treating it separate from the other ones.
We don't have a final financial plan for
our top 10 projects, including projects
that are mandated to get us out of the
consent order in a sewer moratorium. So
the idea that we would take a million
dollars worth of general fund money and
allocate it to something that was ranked
24th, 24th, 28th, 25th, 23rd, 22nd, not
ranked at all is just financially
reckless. My number one CIP project was
outside of the top 10. If I brought a
resolution next month to fund it out of
general fund balance, it should upset
every single one of you and you should
vote it down. I will not support a
deferral on this. I will support defeating
this and I will expect everybody to work
collaboratively so we can plan
appropriately, we can financially plan
appropriately, and we're all going to
accept the collective group outcomes
whether they meet our individual needs and
goals or not. This isn't deprioritizing
parks in any way. There's five projects
that were park projects that ranked higher
than this, including multiple ones in the
top 10. We are investing and committing
into parks. What I'm not supportive of
doing is ignoring our planning process,
ignoring the staff efforts and running
flavors of the Day, Vice Mayor Linville,
if you want to go. Alderman Fuquay, do you
want to go? Anybody else? Alderman Murray
thank you, Mayor.
Just real quick question. I certainly
understand what you're saying and I want
us to be fiscally responsible in all that
we do and especially in the projects that
we choose. And I just wanted to give you
some background backstory. It wasn't about
prioritization of the, the exercise that
we did. It was with funds in parkland that
that's what it was designed to. Where
funds were designed to be pulled from.
When we decided to put that money out of
this fund into the general fund was the
only caveat that was between the two of
them to try to still do a project with
that money. So if I remember correct, and
I correct me if I'm wrong, but we saw a
great opportunity to move on Station Hill.
That wasn't, I don't think anywhere CSA
Phase 2 is a top 10 project. It was a 21
million dollar project that we replaced
with a 6 million dollar project. So it was
a top 10 project.
It was not stated that way when we did the
priority skill priority session. So I
understand. I think that's great. I
believe we made the right call. I was just
simply saying that we have some autonomy
with things that we would like to do. If
something's going to save us a lot of
money, I'm all for it because it's the
taxpayers money. I'm just simply saying
that this is a project that did start.
Somebody talking about completing
projects, what started in 2015. I mean it
was going to cost 600 and something,
637,000 if I remember correctly, when we
looked at it in 2022, it's now up to
915,000. I'm just simply saying this is a
way to go ahead and finish something that
we actually started in 2015. And doing it
at an amount I understand it's $950,000.
I'm just the reason I brought it forward
is because the next time we look at it,
should the board say no, the next time we
look at it, it's going to be more than
that. So that was my only rationale from
it was if we see, if we have that
autonomy, if we see something that could
benefit the city, be a savings to the
city, you know, we can do things like
that. So just wanted to provide some
clarity as to the why.
Please vote on Resolution 2643. Item fails
2 to 7. Work session item number one,
discussion Southern Route Sewer Reserve
Allocation request. Mr. Allen.
Thank you, Mayor we have a couple of these
on here tonight. Just wanted to give you
an update. And then I believe somebody
representing the applicant is here to
speak as well. Well, wanted to afford you
the opportunity.
If there's anybody from Southern Roots,
come on ahead. Make your way to the podium
while Mr. Allen's talking then.
Our staff has started reviewing this.
We've had a few questions, been going back
and forth with their engineer. We expect
to get that resolved and have a
recommendation in two weeks at the next
BOMA meeting.
So
if you want to identify yourself and add
any additional information that you feel
the board needs, and I feel we might have
some questions for y'.
All.
Absolutely. My name is Hamilton Brooks.
I'm a shop construction, live in Thompson
Station. Dr. McKittrick is the owner of
the Hopeful Future, Southern Roots
Endodontics.
And so I've come up here on
behalf of her in the past and just wanted
to use this as an introduction. We've got
Dr. McKittrick. We've got our engineer,
Tim Little. We also have Emma Copeland,
who is from our architecture team. And
then Dr. McKittrick's husband and their
three children are here as well. So, Dr.
McKittrick.
Yes. My name is Dr. Katherine McKittrick.
I am the owner of Southern Roots
Endodontics. Been a member of our
community here for about six years. My
home is about seven minutes from the
practice. So really hoping to, you know,
really further integrate our family into
the community and hoping that we can get a
positive, positive resolution on this,
hopefully as quickly as possible. As you
know, the project's been in process for
quite some time, and really hoping to open
our doors and be able to serve the
community from our dental standpoint.
Thank you. Anything else from Yalls in
comments or questions from the board? Let
me start off with a couple. What. What are
you bringing with this project that's
otherwise not available in Spring Hill? As
we look at, you know, our sewer capacity,
we have a limited amount of capacity to
allocate. I think this board has, you
know, individually and collectively in the
past expressed that we want to hold on to
those reservations for things that are
unique and add value into the community.
Obviously, accessibility to healthcare is
one of those things, but talk to us about
what. What it is that would be added value
to the citizens by giving you this
allocation.
So, as an endodontist, I specialize in
root canals, which, if any of you have
ever had one. We're not always people's
favorite, but there's only 3,000
endodontists in the country as a whole, so
we were able to provide pain free root
canal procedures for patients that, you
know, may not otherwise have that ability.
Yes, general dentists can. Can provide
root canal procedures, which is very
common. However, as an endodontist, I have
an additional two years of training beyond
dental school in order to provide this
service for patients. So we see difficult
cases, we see advanced treatments, we do
some surgical root canal procedures. So
it's a very specialized niche group of
people that, you know, allow that can
provide this service to our citizens.
So we do already have an endodontist in
town. I mean, is that practice at
capacity? What is it that makes you think
there's enough patient volume for Go for
to go around?
Great question.
Where are you practicing now? Where are
you drawing patients from now?
So I was practicing in Hendersonville. I'm
currently practicing in South Carolina as
I'm waiting for my hopeful practice to
open. So I work Tuesday through Thursday
and I stay the weekend in South Carolina
and then I work Monday through Thursday
and I fly back to Spring Hill to spend a
four day weekend with my family, which I
have been doing since July. So I will be
bringing patients in. As I said, I did
work. I worked in Cool Springs for a
little bit and then I worked in
Hendersonville. So, you know, obviously
Spring Hill is growing. We all know this.
And there's more general dentists that
have come in. Primarily my referrals come
from general dentists. So, you know,
relationships with those dentists to get
referrals to the practice.
Comments or questions from the rest of the
board. Alderman Werner, thanks for coming
today and
appreciate this and your service. When did
you start this process of attempting to
start the business here in Spring Hill?
So I signed a lease in April of 2025.
Okay, and what drew you to Spring Hills
specifically?
My home is here. We're setting down roots
here. My daughter plays softball for
Spring Hill Little League. I coached her
for four seasons. My husband is a den
leader through the Cub Scouts of America.
Boy Scout, sorry, Scout Scouting America.
So, I mean, just had roots here. Our
children go to school at Heritage
Elementary. So just really trying to
continue to lay down roots and make Spring
Hill our community.
Very good.
Thank you, Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you, Mayor. If the lease has been
signed to since April, why the hesitation
on business license and executing the
dream and vision?
So we'd been working with. I'd been
working with my architectural team during
that entire time. It started just with a
dental development company kind of
hammering out floor plan details, getting
the architectural team on board, and then
just kind of working through that process
to have our floor plan and all of the
engineering and stuff to go through, and
then our permit was submitted September
23rd, I believe.
Very good. I will take that into
consideration. One of the things that I
want you to be aware of with the sewer
moratorium that the city is experiencing
now, we have a reservation capacity, which
is what you're asking for. Yes, sir. One
of my mindsets with this is we're going to
have a lot of requests and a lot of
denials into the mayor's point. Access to
health care is certainly something that
should be considered. However, me
individually have a great deal of concern
whether or not the reservation exists. Mr.
Allen, that's not a comment towards in any
negative way towards your team and your
research. However, the largest bit of
comfort room that we can have matters if I
give a voting confirmation to allow you
what prevents me or gives me any authority
on what comes next. So board sees to look
at it. I'll consider your investment.
Since April, however, I'm going to be
really considering the reservation or real
capacity to the sewer system.
Alderman Davis, thank you, Mayor.
Thanks for coming by. Or coming to us for
this. And yeah, this is going to be a hard
decision because what comes next is a
great question. If we say yes to you, then
who else is going to come next? So, as the
mayor said, we have another, how do you
say, endodontics. Did I say that right?
Endodontics, yes, endodontics.
Dentist here in the area. And you said
you're working primarily in South Carolina
right now. You have some people in Cold
Springs who he've worked with. Dentists, I
presume. What is your marketing plan? What
have you done right now to secure business
in our area and the surrounding areas that
you have actively been doing? Because if
we are going to give this to you, we
definitely, or I definitely want it to be
a benefit to our citizens. Right. But also
that means you've got to get out there and
make sure everybody knows about you,
because we're giving you the little bit of
capacity that we have. So what's in your
marketing plan? What have you done? What
have you done to already reach out? And
how many dentists do you have that are
committed to referring you at this point?
So I've maintained a lot of those
relationship that relationships that I had
established. There's some providers with
Aspen, some Heartland, some of those
bigger group kind of corporate dental
entities that are in town. I've, like I
said, kept those contacts, but we've
unfortunately been delayed, you know, a
few times. And so it's kind of hard, you
know, they've had to find other providers
in the interim in order to have their
patients have that care. And you know,
when I was practicing in Cool Springs,
yes, there's an endodontist here in Spring
Hill. But ultimately patients are looking
for, you know, who takes my insurance,
who, who has excellent reviews. And the
practice that I'm at in South Carolina
right now, I mean, we're getting stellar
five star reviews. People want to go to a
place where they feel welcome, where they
feel cared for, where they're, you know,
it's again, it's a specialty practice, so
we have state of the art equipment. And I
have not visited the practice here in
town, but I have been a member of our
community. I have been a member of the
endodontic community. I haven't met this
person to know even, you know, kind of
where they stand in the community. So I
mean I, my plan is once I have a date to
open, then I can really kind of push
forward with that marketing plan. And yes,
it includes feet to the pavement, visiting
those offices, talking to those doctors. I
have been practicing for eight years, so
I'm not a new provider. You know, people
are looking at how long does it take to,
to get the service. You know, nobody wants
to be in the dental chair for three hours
plus. So I, I mean I bring a lot of skill,
a lot of experience to that. But as far
as, you know, actively being able to
market root canals are an emergency based
procedures. People want to be seen today,
they want to be seen tomorrow, they want
to be seen next week. And if I go out now
and say I'm opening a practice in Spring
Hill in six months, they look at me and
go, that's nice. You know, come back and
come back when you're a month from
opening, come back when, when you can
really serve my patients. So yes, I've
maintained those contacts, but nobody's
like knocking down the door at the moment
because there's no opening date.
I would like to see when you come back how
you are different from the current doctor
we have here and can benefit our community
more. So and what edge you would have that
stick different, that would be worth that
sewer capacity.
So one of the things that I am capable of
doing and again, I don't know for sure,
but I do have IV sedation certification.
So that's something that not a lot of
endodontists do possess. So that's an
additional service that we can provide in
our office that most I know of one
endodontist in, like, the Cook. Yeah,
Cookville area that provides that service.
Otherwise, there's really aren't any. So
that's one addition that we can provide
with our practice.
Thank you, Alderman Davis, Vice Mayor,
Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. Thanks for being here
tonight. I'm a fellow small business
owner, and so I understand the financial
risk that it takes to, like, go out into
business and make financial outlay. So I
fully understand, like, position you find
yourself in. Can you describe, like, what
has the financial outlay been so far for
anticipating opening up this space?
Roughly.
What do you mean, like, how much money
that we've invested? Roughly $40,000. I
have a business loan, but I can't tap into
that business loan until we've signed a
few more, you know, actually get the
process going. So, yes, that's been money
out of my pocket, the 40 to $50,000. About
the other thing about me working in South
Carolina, it's purely out of necessity.
It's not out of the desire. When I left
the practice in Hendersonville, I have a
non compete that prevents me from working
pretty much in the greater Nashville area.
When I was negotiating to get out of that
non compete, what that negotiation looked
at was a bubble in Spring Hill. That's
about a two and a half mile radius. So my
current space is in that bubble. So if
this is voted down, which hopefully it
isn't, you know, then I have to go back
outside that radius, and that pushes me
basically south. I can't go anywhere.
Maybe, maybe into Kentucky, but I don't
want to drive to Kentucky. I mean, I want
to be seven minutes from my home. I want
to be home for dinner. I want to. I want
to be a softball coach again. I want to be
able to do those things. So, I mean,
you've heard my son in the background. You
know, he's three. I've been away for six
months. It's really not fun. So it's,
again, not. Not out of choice. It's
strictly out of necessity. And thankfully,
I've had the opportunity to be able to do
that and continue to pay the bills that
come up with the attorney fees and the
architectural fees and all the other
things that come into opening a small
business.
Yeah, I can't imagine wanting to fly to
South Carolina from Spring Hill unless
it's absolutely necessary. And there's a
compelling reason. So with the lease that
you have in place right now, would it be
essentially something you're locked into
if this wasn't approved, or. Or is there
an out in the lease?
I mean, there is an out in the lease for,
you know, not being able to use the space
for its intention.
Yeah. Understand the financial business
risk that you're going through. I do
appreciate that you're a Spring Hill
citizen who's wanting to invest in the
community. So that'll weigh heavily in my
decisions. And thank you for being here.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. Alderman
Jimenez, please.
Thank you, Mayor. It's been said over and
over we have this little bubble of
capacity that we have to be protective of.
Right. But you've said a couple things
that tells me, even though we have to
protect this, if I'm going to give it to
anybody, you've. You've mentioned some
qualities of a person that I would give it
to, such as a resident here, a person that
contributes to the community, a person
that gives back. Right. Being rooted
within this community. If I'm going to
give anybody something that I have that I
desire and I hold near and dear to me,
it's going to be someone that also
contributes to the things that I get to do
do here. I don't know if you mentioned
softball, because you do my passion with
softball, but you hit a cord with me.
Right. And I get. Listen that you're going
to South Carolina out of necessity to feed
and provide for your family. I can't say
me myself wants to. I can't approve this
on my own. Right. But if I was to make a
determination on who I thought would be a
person that's a good candidate for what it
is that we possess s here, to me, you rank
high on that list. I'm not as concerned
with the competition because, let's face
it, I run a mortgage company. There's tons
of competition here. Should I be put out
of business because I can't have my
practice? I just moved to a different
building. My building was already built,
but I just moved to a different building.
I don't ever want to find myself in a
position where I'm outed from the
community simply because the practice I
want to do is no longer approved here.
Right. That being said, again, I get
there's other. However you say this
difficult word, and I get that you're not
a person most people want to see, but
maybe you're the best person for that
position. Maybe the person that's here is
second rate, or maybe they're the best. I
don't know. What I do know is you live
here, you desire to reinvest here, you pay
taxes here, you spend money here. The city
is benefiting by you being here. We're not
benefiting by you being in South Carolina.
All that to say, these are the type of
people I want to see be successful in our
community.
Thank you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman
Canapari.
Thanks. Excuse me. Thanks, Mayor.
Hello.
This is a question for Mr. Allen. The
applicant's letter, the last paragraph
says that if a five day patient week is
considered, this would be an average uses
of just over 20 gallons per day, assuming
a four week month. Has anybody on your
staff checked it or agree with it?
That's one of the things that we're
discussing with them. So yes, we're
checking it and we're going to discuss
that.
You think it's reasonable?
Well, one of the concerns that we have
generally as we look at not just this
particular one, but just globally with a
variety of different meetings and requests
that are going on, is generally I always
try and operate under the principle of
don't put anything in place that you can't
actually enforce. And this certainly seems
to be falling into that realm of
discussion internally with us. And so how
do you regulate a four day work week
versus a five day work week from, versus
averaging these things and looking at
that. So we are preparing some stuff to
send back to their engineer, to Mr. Little
and talk a little bit about clarifying
some statements back so that we can get
this more on something that's a little
more palatable. Right. I have some
reservations about us making a
recommendation to the board based on a
possible four day scenario versus a five
day scenario. We just need to know what
the scenario is that we're planning and
projecting for and make sure that we've
got enough there to cover it. And so we
will get. That's something that we need to
get work out before we come back with a
formal recommendation to you guys.
If I'm mistaken, correct me, but this
would be true for any applicant that runs
a business. There's no way of enforcing if
they four days, five days, six days or
seven days, you look at the hours that are
on the door, that says we're open from
nine to five.
Which is why in the legal framework that
we established in the moratorium, we
required actual flow monitoring to go
along with it. So there is trust but
verify principle in place legally.
So we do, we do plan to put a meter on
these.
It's very challenging in this situation,
John. I mean, you're talking about a multi
story, multi tenant building with one
connection. So one of the conversations
we're gonna have to go back and change,
check on is we need to look at master
Meeting on water versus potential sub
metering. And we're likely going to have
to put something in place with them where
we're going to have to measure potential
sub meters on subspaces to be able to
measure out what's already there and
already been allocated in the system
versus the new use being added onto it to
measure the difference. You know, we've
got a number of folks on my staff looking
at the specifics on that that we're trying
to work.
Okay, so again, this isn't. This isn't
unique. This situation is going to come up
again. And from some of the comments I
heard from the board, I'm wondering why
we're even, even entertaining any
requests. Because it sounds like between
not giving up any of our reserve and not
being able to account for what's being
monitored or lack of monitoring, why are
we even entertaining? Why don't we just
stick to the moratorium and say nobody has
an application in because here's a health
provider that was saying, hey, let's take
a look at this. There's only one other
provider in Spring Hill. I guess the
question I have is we're asking the wrong
doctor how busy she's going to become. We
should be asking the other doctor how busy
they are or he or she is and maybe
googling them and finding out some of the
comments that they have for their practice
before we start hammering on this
applicant who seems to be a resident and a
citizen and giving back to the community,
her husband and her family. So I guess I'm
confused. Either we're going to entertain
these or and decide whether an applicant
can get a dispensation or not. If we're
going to talk about, well, you know, we
got this capacity, we've got to hang on to
it. Well, we have criteria set up, I
thought, and one of them is health care.
So I don't see why we're questioning how
many of these we have. The city's growing,
evidently large enough to get TriStar
another hospital. I know people perk up
when the word tristar comes up, but hey,
you know, so if we're big enough for that.
And you're right, you're right, Doctor.
Dentists, I mean, they're like. They're
like pumpkin seeds. They're growing. Every
place you look is another dental office.
So these people have to refer to an
orthodontist somewhere. And so you got my
vote.
Vice Mayor Linville. I'm sorry, Alderman
Hartwell. Have you gone? Alderman
Hartwell.
Thank you, Mayor. This question is for
Dara Ms. Sanders. And again, I'm business
owner, just playing devil's advocate
asking this question. If she were to find
a location that was a previous doctor's
office, would there any. Would. Would
there be any question at this point?
The path forward would definitely have
fewer hurdles, I'll say that.
So Ordinance 2529 was written to say
that Development Services, particularly
the Coats Division, may issue a tenant
improvement building permit
as long as we are able to confirm that the
proposed use, the sewer
demand associated with the proposed use is
equal to or less than the previous use. In
this case, there is no previous
use to the space because there was no
previous tenant. And so that's where this
hurdle has occurred for this particular
tenant space.
So if we were to. Or if you, doc, were to
find a temporary spot until our moratorium
is all laid out and then go back to your
current builder and say, hey, we're ready
to go, if it's still available, we'd love
to make this our. Our home. And you have
time to build your business at that at
that time, too. That's always an option.
Alderman.
Can. Perry.
When we. This is for you, sir. When things
will continue to come to us, we can't
ignore it if someone is putting it on the
agenda for us to talk about it. We want to
give our citizens the time to express how
they feel. Right. So I'm thankful that you
came to us and told us.
She.
She's just one of many that are brave
enough to come up here and say, and what.
What she feels and what she wants. We're
going to have to turn down some. We're not
going to put them in place of others. You
know, you're number one. You're better
than the other. Obviously, we have to keep
it black and white and say, this is where
we are. This is what. This is what our CIP
has said we're going to do, and we have to
follow it. If we're all in the same, on
the same path and looking the same way,
then that's how we have to do it. But you
can always get something temporary.
That's what I would do.
Thank you. Alderman Hartwell, if you care
to respond, go ahead.
Well, not only am I supportive as her
husband, but I will be the practice
manager when the office opens. And I think
something that's getting downplayed a
little bit is that we have one office here
in Spring Hill. I think you're speaking
about one that's in North Spring Hill.
It's near Thompson Station. So, again,
it's mostly an emergency based business.
It's not like a standard general dentist
who sees a large amount of people during a
day. They see endodonticy between 5, 10
people a day max. And if they have some
extra space, they fit in those emergency
patients. So anybody in Spring Hill who
has an emergency endodontically, it's a
terrible thing. And you want it done
today. Well, if that one in Spring Hill is
full up, then the next one is north and
then just keeps going north and north and
north. So when you get up into Brentwood
and Nashville you have many choices. Here
in Spring Hill we don't. It's one and then
it's then you may have a 45 minute drive
again, you're in pain, you want to be out
of it as soon as possible. Now in terms of
being able to do a temporary thing, we're
talking about buying dental chairs, having
people come in and structurally make sure
the building can handle microscopes. All
that's a huge expense. And to move it is
not, not something somebody would think
about on a whim. You know, that would be a
permanent change to either upgrade your
office and or move. Not necessarily just
wanting a new building or to upgrade. It
would be a massive undertaking to switch
once you were to set that second office.
Sorry. If I may, our company does 15 plus
dental practices a year from a
construction standpoint along with many
other market segments. But because of the
timeline that I've been doing that I've
become very ingrained in the dental
community. Everything from, from dental
specific CPAs, financial advisors,
architects and healthcare commercial real
estate focused companies. There are very,
very few if any former dental practices
that are just waiting for a dentist to
come in and take that over. Those things
are snatched up immediately because of the
advantages that they offer. The med gas is
roughed in, the plumbing's roughed in
slight modifications for the specific
equipment. But from a temporary solution
that's probably next to zero of that space
being there that is available to receive
the dental equipment then in conjunction
with the cost that that would require to
set up a temporary practice of which is a
landlord even going to take a short term
lease on a dental space. So what I've seen
in the market is dental practices aren't
just sitting there and, and if they are,
they're snatched up immediately, which
makes a temporary solution very, very hard
to solve.
Thank you. For what? For what it's worth,
I used to work for a national pediatric
dso and you're correct. You build dental
spaces from the ground up or you get a ti
improvement you don't walk into one.
Alderman Linville. Excuse me, Vice Mayor
Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Carter, this
question for you. This is the first one of
these we've considered. And so is there
anything that the board should be aware of
as far as, like, our standard of review
and how an approval might impact later
judgments that we might pass? I think, as
a legislative body of the city, judgment
about how you want to use your
reservation, which I understand is what,
100, what exactly? 100,000 gallons.
So
I think you have plenty of discretion how
to utilize that. Okay.
Thank you, Alderman Davis.
Thank you, Mayor. I just want to
reiterate. I know I seem to hard on that
because sometimes I come across with the
marketing, but I too am a small business
owner, and I did have the challenge of
trying to find a place, and mine's not as
intricate as yours. I just need desks. And
I do know that there. There's a challenge
trying to find a place in Spring Hill. And
I do favor the fact that you're. You're a
health care provider, and it's. You're a
person that's contributing to our
community, and there is only one other
doctor that does this in our area, and we
are growing. So I am going to take all
that into consideration because that does
mean a lot to me. So I just wanted you to.
To. To have that one tip.
Thank you, Alderman Davis, Alderman
Jimenez.
Thank you, Mayor. I want to toss this out
for us to take under consideration. I
think this is the most overlooked part.
You signed a lease prior to the moratorium
taking place?
Yes, Sir.
You spent 40 plus thousand dollars on a
vision this morning. My daughter cleaned
her room with the intent if I clean my
room, I get to go outside, right? She
cleaned it. If we said no, we would have
shattered every vision. Everything we
taught her. That is right. That, to me, is
the most important thing when we take the
consideration of where we're going to
direct this. This is a vision her and her
family had. Was that me? Oh, this one's
fun. I thought I heard feedback.
Sorry.
This was a vision her and her family had
prior to us running into a wall that we
can't move. We have a way to solve a
problem and create a vision that comes to
reality. When we look at considerations,
we look at the fact that this family spent
this money, spent this time, took this
vision, and sat around their dining room
table talking about their future. By the
way, that's not going to move quickly.
It's not like they're selling mattresses,
right? They're not going in and saying,
load them up, up. It failed. Take them out
to, to Mayor Matt's point or Mayor
Fitter's point, It takes a lot to build
this. That tells me there's commitment
here. We have to look at the fact these
individuals did this prior to the
moratorium taking place. They invested
money prior to this taking place. This
building was constructed prior to this
taking place, even though it wasn't built
out. We're impacting more than just her
income. We're impacting the landlord's
income, we're impacting the management
company's income. Are we going to sit,
which I know we can't fill every building
here in Spring Hill, but are we going to
sit with an empty building and say, sorry,
landlord, no money for you. The businesses
that want to move in there, they're just
not good enough, or are we going to take
action and honor some of the things that
we should as individuals and say, hey,
this family had a vision and they check
all the boxes, whatever those boxes may
be, let's help make this a reality. So
that's my stance, is, is very clear on
where my direction of this is going to be.
Thank you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman
Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. I think Alderman Jimenez
summed that up very well. I appreciate the
fact that you live here in Spring Hill,
appreciate that you're heavily involved in
softball. I have a. Unfortunately, an
eight year old who's going to be trying
out in a week or two, and I'll just leave
it at that. So. But I appreciate your
commitment to Spring Hill and certainly
that's something I consider. It was just
shared that this all started prior to the
moratorium, and I'm sure for a number of
reasons, it's still going on. So I just
want you to know, for me, I take that into
consideration. I certainly appreciate your
commitment to Spring Hill and I believe
it's okay to have multiple. I won't
pronounce it right, whatever you do, Doc,
I won't. I won't pronounce it right.
Whatever you do, Doc, I think it's more.
It's good that there'll be more. One of
you, but most importantly, you're one of
us. You live here. You're raising your
family here. And real quick, just a
question, Dan. The. On the chart, the 240
gallons per day, and then I see that it
full build out goes to like 440, so 200,
technically, obviously, that. That moves
from 10 to 20. I mean, that that moves in.
In accordance with. As the business grows,
is what I'm understanding. And. Excuse me,
is that. And is that how we're looking at
this projected calculation for gallons per
day?
We'll work with the applicant to project
for their full build out. That way they
can, if the board chooses to do it, they
can have their full business plan
accounted for. You know, you gotta be
careful. She's already got a loan in
place, so, you know, I would be very leery
of us saying yes, but this much versus
that, you only get to do this many seats
versus that seat site. We need to get
apples to apples on the allocation and
make sure we're measuring it right and
then give them clarity so that they can go
execute and do what they need to do.
Yeah, I completely agree. I just had a
question about it. I just didn't know if
that. How. That was kind of set up and so.
But thank you for what you do.
Thank you. Alderman Murray, if I may. Yes,
ma'.
Am.
Go ahead.
I would like to emphasize, part of the
reason that Mr. Allen and development
Services reached out to us was we
submitted for building permit prior to the
sewer moratorium going into place. And I'm
sure you've heard that plenty. I'm just
trying to make sure she's getting
everything accounted for. And the second
point is, you ask what's different about
Dr. McKittrick. When I had to share with
her that her building had to be stopped
and would not be reviewed by codes, she
thanked me for my hard work and for
pushing to try and get this taken care of.
That is a compassion that does not come
come often. And I think it speaks to how
she will treat her patients and your
citizens.
Thank you. Any other. Alderman Fuqua?
Sorry. When was the original application
made?
September 23rd.
And it was delayed. What were the calls?
No, my understanding with most city
submittals and building reviews, it takes
a approximately a month for the first
review before we receive any initial
comments.
Has the review been done, Ms. Sanders?
Alderman Fuqu. Yes.
So
the Reason. So they made their application
for the tenant improvement building permit
the week before the board of mayor and
alderman passed the resolution temporarily
suspending the issuance of permits. So
they were caught up in that temporary
pause while the city assessed our sewer
demand, sewer commitments and sewer
capacity availability. During the pause,
applicants were given the option of either
withdrawing, pausing, or allowing the
review to continue at their own risk. My
understanding, based on an update from my
staff recently, was that the review has
been completed. I take that back. The
review has been completed. However, there
were additional changes or improvements
that needed to be made based on building
code and fire code's requirement for
ingress and egress. Yes, we are making
quick coordination efforts with the other
tenants to alleviate any egress issues.
All right, thank you.
Anything in closing from y', all?
Zen, I have something to say. So I. I
guess this would be the time to just put
everything out on the table. I don't.
We've been discussing this.
If.
If this doesn't go through, we may not be
able to stay and Tennessee.
Okay.
I won't be able to be a softball Spring
Hill girls softball coach and I won't be
able to be a Weblo Den leader here at Pac
25 here in Thompson Station. So I mean,
not only will our family be affected, but
the community will be affected. And I
don't know about the other applicants
because obviously we're talking about this
a lot, that there will be other needs for
this stuff, but I don't
know
their specifics and if their family will
be so integral and tied into this
decision. Because when you leave a dental
office and you have that non compete, the
thought is that you're leaving to either
go someplace else because they don't want
to compete with you here in the area, but
down here in Spring Hill, I mean, if we
don't get in somebody else and another and
probably a fourth and Adonis will be here
pretty soon just because the city is
growing so fast. So we want to be here
first or second, and we want to be able to
provide the best that Dr. Maykitric can do
because she's great. But not only will the
city not get her expertise, but they may
lose the McKittrick family.
So
thank you for coming tonight and making
your case. We appreciate it. I believe Mr.
Allen will have a resolution of some kind
at the voting session in two weeks. Is
that fair to say? Contingent upon
technical information being exchanged, My
staff's been directed to help these people
with the intent of making a recommendation
for approval in two weeks.
Great. Well, thank you. I will tell you,
your three year old is roughly a thousand
percent better behaved than mine would
have been tonight, so.
Well, thank you.
You are doing something right.
Thank you all.
Thank you all. I'm gonna go ahead skip to
number four so we can stay on sewer
reserve allocation request and go to 12
Stone Health Partners. I do believe we
have a representative from 12 stone as
well. Mr. Allen, I know there's less
information from staff available on this,
but if you have anything to update the
board while she's coming forward,
it's essentially the same update. We've
been talking with them, we're working
through it, and hopefully here in a couple
weeks, we'll have a final recommendation
for you guys.
Ma', am, if you can remind us who you are
again and then again kind of answer some
of the same questions that you heard. What
is. What does 12 stone do? What's. What's
the value add to the community?
Sure. My name is Cindy Nix and I represent
12 stone health partners. We exist in the
community right here on Stephen P. Jokic.
We've been there for five years. We
provide infusion services. Last year, we
saw 3,000 patients in this community who
have chronic and complex conditions.
Everything from Ms. To diabetes to
Crohn's. There's just all kinds of
conditions that we see. Our patients can
be infused anywhere from an hour to six
hours. And so I had submitted to Tim here
some information and I thought we had
covered everything because our patients
kind of it. We may see 11 patients one
day, we may see five the next. It's all
determined on our scheduling and based on
the length of infusions. And so anyway, we
are just moving. Our lease expired and
last, it expires at the end of June. But I
started last July working on a new lease
and we got it signed in August, at the end
of August. And so we started moving
forward with our drawings and everything.
Our lease was up here and due to our
neighbors, we couldn't control what was
next door to us. It was a restaurant and a
meat market, and we have all kinds of
issues with that being a healthcare
company being next door. So we found this
location and we started our drawings and
everything and turned our permit in in
November. And I didn't find out till
December, like mid December, that it
wasn't going forward. I wasn't given a
notice that said, you know, I had a choice
of stopping the process, but, you know, we
were still moving forward and I think the
permit is in. And so then we answering. I
hired Tim to come in and answer the
questions. And so that's where we are
today.
So can I ask a couple questions? You said
you do 3,000 patients or so across the
street annually. What'd you do the year
before?
Oh, I would have to have that.
I'm just generally asking. I mean, is the
growing business growing where we would
expect sewer demand to. To grow year over
year, or is 3,000 fairly mature for a
clinic?
I think that's mature for us. In this new
clinic. The reason that we're moving again
is because our lease is up. We're not
giving a bigger footprint. We only have
two restrooms.
You're not adding chairs or infusion rooms
or PK rooms or anything like that.
We still have two restrooms, and then we
have a sink in our med room and a sink in
our break room. So we're not adding to our
footprint at all. We're just going from
one to the other.
And of the 3,000 patients, I assume those
are unique patients and not patient
visits.
Unique patients, yeah.
So of the 3,000 patients, I mean, how many
are.
That's how many came in and said, any.
Any idea how many were treatments?
Treatments, yes.
Any idea how many were. Were Spring Hill
residents and what are the alternatives
for them if we force them to go somewhere
else?
I'm not sure. I don't know who our
competitor is in this market. I mean, we
have some in Murfreesboro, but we're
located in. They would have to go
somewhere else if they stayed with us,
which is maybe who their prescriber would
give. They would go to Mount Juliet or
Bellevue or Skyline.
Those would be their closest alternatives.
And we're talking about people who would
be treated potentially multiple times a
week.
Well, maybe not. Maybe once a week. But
the problem is we have a lot of people
that have mobility issues, and so getting
places, getting other places, it can be
difficult for them. And sometimes they
have to come through services who bring
them to locations. So.
Thank you. Questions for Ms. Nixon? Go
ahead.
I was going to try to speak just a bit. I
know with some of the comparisons in the
previous one, as well as this one, I tried
to give you a comparison for this facility
of what has been used, measured,
projected. Just to give you a comparator
for the appendix C that developmental
services saying, okay, here's what our
baseline for establishing allowance is.
That was the whole purpose of giving you
additional information. For example, in
Ms. Cindy's case, to go through appendix C
just straight up with the number of
patients, doctors, and everything, it's
just up shy of 350 gallons a day. Their
measured practice for a similar facility,
which you can see the numbers there would
be 225, but they're only actually using
about 100 gallons a day. As a engineer, I
know this moratorium stuff has come in
late for both practices. As the outsider,
I've got an existing office building
permitted as an office building. It was
allotted something when it was built for a
use without changing the use of the
facility, which is an office building for
either tenant. I know y' all are working
through that and everybody, y' all are
kind of as new to it as I am, almost just
y' all got a few rounds of this on. I
don't see it where it's adding burden to
what was already allocated with the
original Shell building. But anyway, I
have tried to provide the numbers and that
based on the Appendix C as described with
Mr. Will, his. Let me. Sorry, Mr. Allen
and I spoke with Mr. Will last week with
their part also just going. They said they
was going to use Appendix C for any
allocations. We should be well below
anything they would have there with either
practice. If you look at the two things.
So that's where I just wanted to weigh in
and try to clarify because I know Alderman
Canipari mentioned earlier about some of
the altered numbers. That's what I was
doing. Just trying to give you as much
comparative information as I could. If
it's a four day work week, as many medical
facilities facilities are, or a five day
week, here's what these would would work
out to based on the measured comparator.
And we're five days a week. So we don't
stray from it. We don't change that.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I know that it just
happens to be that basically the first two
requests that we got were from a Spring
Hill citizen and a Spring Hill local
business. There will be ones in the future
where that is not the case. But I think as
the board's making consideration, they
should put a lot of weight into the fact
that they've been here present in the
community, been serving citizens here in
Spring Hill. And so as we're thinking
about what kinds of projects do we want to
allocate any sort of tenant improvements
for? I think that should weigh heavily.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. Alderman
Fuquay.
Thank you, mayor. Mr. Little, moving
forward, I don't see anything attached to
this other one. Would you stamp a letter
similar to the previous one on.
I have sent one for Ms. Niece. Is that
what you're asking? Okay.
So Steph has it. They could provide it to
us when we look at a resolution
with the
appendix C, much as I referenced there.
That's perfect. That's one of the things
that I've been looking for in line with
this. I mean, you have a business owner
here that exists within the city. They're
not looking for an expanse. We're not
talking about a sewer allocation
necessarily. Is the square footage
increasing? Is there a new toilet, a new
sink?
Is.
Is something interchanging differently
between the location that they're
currently in and where they're going?
The location that they're proposing to go
is actually next to the southern routes
tenant space. So it is in a tenant space
that has not had a previous tenant. And so
therefore their sewer demand would be a
new demand. And then the vacate. The space
that they are vacating would then be
eligible for someone to move in with sewer
demand of equal or less than. So. So
that's. We're not. We're not taking this
sewer demand and moving it over there.
We're taking this business, moving it over
there, resulting in new sewer demand.
Meanwhile, someone is eligible to slide in
and impact the system similarly to this
business.
Perhaps I missed that. I thought once the
vacancy was pulled, that was no longer
eligible. Next request is. If that's the
case with you all's office, I mean, that
should be administrative land not seen by
us. Okay, Makes sense. Thank you.
The one.
Alderman Fuqua. The one. The one caveat to
that is that they have attempted to
provide us some data that might show a
previous tenant use in that space. And
that's part of what we're taking into
considering in our evaluation of it.
I guess what I gave you was like a
comparison facility. Not necessarily one
that was there, but I guess to go back to
what Ms. Dara had mentioned, it's not a
new service in my mind. You've got an
existing building. It was allocated for
something, so it's not a new allocation.
So how. I guess when I do it, sir, prior.
Prior to the sewer moratorium, we did not
make individual allocations to buildings
or development.
There was a burden already considered for
the facility with infrastructure, I mean.
Correct. And then with the consent order
and the moratorium, the rules change so
that.
That. So that's it.
It's a snapshot of actual versus
projector.
Right.
So when the moratorium goes into a place,
it's about what's actually active and
what's actually contributing out of the
building.
Okay.
Versus new usage on top of that, within
those. Within those Unfinished.
Get my mind around to help talk better
with everybody.
Which is why it's very challenging because
what part of what piece do we take into
account and how do we measure and account
that? So that's. Those are the things that
we're working through.
And as a engineer representing developers,
owners, if you've got an existing
building, you're not taking a change of
use. Michelle. Building, you're not.
You'll never think of it as. This is not
covered already in the infrastructure
growth plan versus I'm trying to build
something out of the ground at
the moment in time. The moratorium was
acting. It's not producing.
Were negotiating leases is all potential
considerations.
We can make it real simple, you know. At
the time of the moratorium, were there
people in there using the restroom or not?
If they weren't using the restroom,
they're not in. If they were, then maybe
we can have a conversation.
Floor is still yours, Alderman Fuqua.
I. My. My same comments to the request
remains to Vice Mayor Linville's point.
You take a great deal of consideration in
regard to Spring Hill, the business
existing family that's trying to grow. It
does remain the same. That it is going to
be a. A burden on the system. Just to
rehash it, reiterate it, that that reserve
is something that we're going to have to
be very hesitant to allocate. I will
certainly consider it documentation when
the resolution is presented. I can't give
a. A definite yes.
Okay.
Thank you, Alderman Fuqu. Alderman
Jimenez.
Thank you, Mayor. I know this is so
simple, and I know you guys have thought
about this way before me. Can we not just
take their water bill and say, hey, over
the past 12 months, they've used X
gallons. This is the average usage that we
were looking. I'm assuming we're doing
that right?
Well, we don't. I went to the lady who
manages the building, and it's not
separate.
Metered separate.
Okay.
So that's why.
That's why. Because that's the process to
go get the.
The.
I had to go find a comparative comparable
comparator facility that.
So. See, that's why that was so easy, that
there's no way I came up with that for the
first time. The next question is this. I
know you mentioned many different
illnesses that are covered by your. Your
business. How many of those, if you were
to guess just off the hip, have mobility
issues, that if we said, hey, no more, you
got to go to Mount Juliet, maybe they
couldn't drive there, or they had to rely
on a Ride to get. Get there versus people
that just drive up, jump out, run in, get
their service and run back out.
I could get that number for you.
I would be interested.
Yeah.
Because I don't think we have a whole lot
of people who hop out and, you know, go in
these. Most people who come there are
pretty ill, and it's chronic and ongoing.
It's not like it's ever going to be
better. It's just to maintain their life,
you know, and to keep, Keep them alive.
And so.
And that's not the, that's not the, the
golden ticket, right? That's not the, hey,
I got this.
It's.
Yes.
You know.
Yeah.
But what I'm saying is we're also talking
about the displacement of our citizens
that live here in the city of Spring Hill
and saying, hey, sorry about your. Your
service. That went away. So that's a,
That's a metric. You know, I know we have
the engineering side of things, which is
great. The engineering only tells a little
bit of the story. The challenge is, as we
progress through what it is we're
progressing through, we're going to get
more sharp on the things we, we require,
demand in order to make a decision. The
other side of this is, it was mentioned
earlier, we can't say yes to everybody,
right? But when you're talking about the
comfort of the citizens, the medical
provisions, things like that, I think
there's more consideration than if you
came to us and said, hey, I want to boil
50 extra hot dogs a day and we have a hot
dog stand. Here's what we're going to do.
And I get the part that we're, we're
opening a new space and someone's going to
take that space, which now we have to look
at twofold, right? How much are they going
to take there? How much are we going to
lose over here? So, but having those
metrics, and maybe this goes for people in
the future that are looking to apply for
the position you are, is how many people
do we serve here? What types of people and
what types of additional services are we
going to provide to.
To.
To help the community? Because that's what
I'm interested in. How are we going to
better the community. Community with what
little we have? Because we will run out
and we. When we run out. I need a speech
person, obviously.
I guess I'm not trying to be
disrespectful. I'm just trying to
understand. We've been here five years
serving this community, right. Helping
Pete, helping these patients who come
right over Here, you know, and I'm
gonna get somebody after you that's been
here 10 years.
Yeah.
And then someone after that has been here
15. That is a consideration. Don't get me
wrong.
Yeah.
And again, I'm not saying no by any sense
of the means. What I'm saying is show me
how many. Right. Because that's. We can
agree. Listen, if. If your practice wasn't
doing well, you'd have pulled out. You
wouldn't be moving. The other side of it
is we have to consider that and understand
how does this benefit the community. At
the end of the day, I have to look these
other citizens in the eyes. Maybe the
person that's been doing it for two years,
that their business started as a, you
know, a little office inside an office
that now expands, landed. And maybe what
they provide is what the community really,
really needs. Right. These are all just
consideration factors. And I believe that
in the future, when people come with
these, it's like you're preparing for
court. You don't show up for a speeding
ticket saying, hey, I'm here. Where are
you speeding?
I don't know.
You show up with some evidence, and I'm
just asking to expand that evidence. So
when I make a decision and I face a
citizen in the street that we say no to, I
can say we said yes to this because of
this, not because on that day I felt
generous and gave them some sewer
capacity. Right. Because that's not the
answer here. So that's all I have.
And I will say our specialty is having
private suites. You don't go sit in an
open area like you would at a hospital. We
provide a service to where a person can go
into a private suite. They have a recliner
that can bring a loved one or somebody to
attend with them. There's a love, you
know, loveseater chair there because
they're there for hours. We provide them
with snacks, a TV with remote so they can
have a private time. Because it's some.
Some of these are really long. And so
anyway, we provide a service so they don't
have to go on a hospital campus and be in
a open scene.
Create comfort for people that desire.
Exactly.
And listen, I'm with you. And I'm by no
means saying no. I'm not saying yes. What
I'm saying is give me something to wear
when I face these citizens. And they say,
why this one? I can say, it's right here.
We got 3,000 people in this city of Spring
Hill that need their services. Right.
Versus I'm going to Use a mattress store.
We hear about it all the time on Facebook.
Another mattress store, another Mexican
restaurant, right?
Yeah.
Just give me something to where when I
make a determination, I base it off
factual information that I can tell my
constituents that I made this decision
because of this, and I stand on this rock
because I believe in it. That's all I'm
asking.
Ms. Nix, if you're able to pull, like,
patient zip codes.
Okay.
Of those 3,000 care opportunities, I. I
would think that's relatively easy. That's
not disclosing any phi or anything. And if
we see 37174 and 37179, a whole bunch, I
mean, we'll know that it's. It's Spring
Hill people being directly impacted.
Alderman Davis.
Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to echo what
Alderman Jimenez and Mayor Fitterer are
saying. I want some more facts on that.
I'd like. Also like to see
who.
Who your competition is from you guys and.
And how you're different from the
competition. Just. You gave us just a
little nugget. Hey, they have their own,
you know, place here. I want to know that
so I understand. Hey, this is a different
thing. This is, you know, and this is a
question. My next question you may not
have the answer to, but do you happen to
know who will be going into that space?
And the only reason I asked that is
because if we're going to allocate sewer
capacity, you, maybe the person going into
that space is going to need less sewer
capacity, and that could be an argument. I
don't know, but that's why I was asking
that question.
Well, it'd have to be less or we'd be
right back here having that conversation
with them.
Well, yeah, but. But not the same, right?
I'm talking about.
Correct.
Nothing else. Ms. Nicks, anything else
from your end?
No, just. Who would submit that
information to you? I'll get my.
Ms. Sanders and Mr. Allen, who. Who should
be the recipient of the information?
So far, we've been asking that the
additional information be submitted to
both Mr. Allen and myself.
There you go.
All right, thank you so much.
Thank you. We'll see you in two weeks.
Work session, item discussion number
three. Discussion on the reservoir raw
water transmission line via TVA easement.
Mr. Brassfield, I think this is your first
time in front of us, too, so good luck.
Will comes to us from Thomas and Hutton.
He's been with us for a few months now,
and he's doing a great job of getting the
Spartan teamwork organized.
Good evening, board. Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
Perhaps it may show up.
There we go.
So tonight I'm here to present this
exhibit to show the illustration of the
existing TVA alignment, the right of way
that's behind the water treatment plant,
and the proposal of the new raw water
transmission line we're hoping to install
within the easement up to the reservoir.
So in this exhibit, the blue line from the
bottom coming in is the existing raw water
line going into the water treatment plant.
The yellow line, the red and the upper
yellow is the proposed line coming into
the reservoir. Up the top, the red line is
the actual TVA existing TVA easement with
overhead power lines. And we're looking to
install the raw water line just on the
outside of that. After reviewing multiple
routing options, the staff believes that
utilizing this TVA easement provides the
most efficient and practical approach for
construction. This alignment minimizes
impacts to the surrounding properties and
offers direct path to the reservoir. And
we are requesting the board's approval
tonight to proceed with further
coordination and design efforts based on
this proposed approach.
Thank you, Mr. Brassfield. So you're
looking for head nods tonight. Let me just
ask to go from the reservoir back to the
water treatment plant, would we just run
it in reverse?
Yes. There'd be multiple. Multiple lines
laying parallel each other.
And from wastewater reclamation plant up
to the reservoir. We still talking about
going up by the creek?
Yes.
Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you. Mayor, I'm gonna ask really
probably an elementary question, but the
TVA easement is for electrical
infrastructure. Is there any issue with
running water lines through something
that's built for electrical
infrastructure?
Their requirements have to stay away from
structures within 25 foot. So our proposal
will be right on the very edge of the
right of way.
Okay.
And we haven't went out pulled a tape
measure, but it's significant distance
away. So we would actually have to
procure
a right of way easement from the
community. But we're not encumbering any
more property. So we're going to be within
that property that's already designated as
an easement. Just go underground.
Very good.
We this is taken right out of the playbook
for from the Cumberland pipeline project.
These guys recognize that, hey, we got an
opportunity. We've been having some
conversations. There's concern about
making sure that we have enough separation
and trying to run all that just through to
the north, just through those meadow brick
open spaces. Could get a little bit
challenging with the size of the lines
we're potentially talking about. So these
guys brought it to me. It's a great idea.
Seems like a path of least resistance to
the treatment plan to me. Makes a lot of
sense.
Thank you, Vice Mayor. Alderman Werner.
Thank you, Mayor.
The question I have, and the question
I'm going to get, because I'm already
getting it from Brandon woods residence,
is when that reservoir is being built
and
it's going to affect those neighborhoods
to clear that.
What kind of effect is this pipeline
digging going to have effect on those
neighborhoods that it runs right through?
Through or behind? Is this a digging or
will there possibly be mining going on to
build this?
To be determined. That's why we're asking
to proceed with further investigation.
Possible timeline for, and I know this
is vague and I don't hold you
to it, possible timeline for the length
of this will take to put this
pipeline in to be determined.
Okay.
That's part of our furthering design
criterion.
So there hasn't been any surveying of
that land yet or anything?
No, sir.
This is just asking for approval to move
forward with, to get started with all
that.
Very good.
Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Warner.
Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Warner, I can
guarantee you, being familiar with the
property, that there's going to be a lot
of blasting. I'm familiar with the
property. I've hiked it after we purchased
it, went onto the property and from that
yellow line in its entirety is all through
rock. And I'm going to make some
assumptions being familiar with the
development that you see on the screen
there. That site is mainly rock. So it's
going to be significant. Onto my question
with that, with the layout of this. I know
that no structures can be built within 6,
75ft of the furthest line on those
transmission lines. Are we going directly
on it? Under. Are we going to go next to
it? Like how close will we be to property
lawns? And I know that you can't fully
answer that, but I'm, I am curious to
Alderman Warner's point. Going through, I
guess that would be. Is it Royalton Woods?
Yes.
On how close we would be to essentially
backyards.
We would utilize the standard practice of,
I think it's 10 foot on either side of the
pipe and for the utility right of way, but
we would back that up to the edge of TVAs.
So basically, if this is the edge of TVA,
a house is here. Our line would be over
here to where our right of way does not
cross over.
Okay, so it wouldn't be. It would be X
amount of feet off of, of their vertical
structures.
Yes, correct.
Not outside of their line. I guess
transmission Line.
I'm not fully understand what you're
saying.
The overhead line. So you know, they're
booms and then they have the outfall. So
we would be under that rather outside of
that?
Pretty much, yes. Cool.
Alderman Kanapari, thanks.
Thanks, Mayor. I think I know the answer
to this, but I'm going to ask it anyway.
Have we explored the possibility of tdot
since we're going to bury the pipe using
some of their easement for before they
widen the 65 there.
I don't believe there's any TDOT right
away. It's going to be encumbered in this
project. With the line for TVA,
we would not.
With 65.
I mean, would. Are we going to buy the.
The yellow line? Are we going to have to
purchase that property?
Very easy.
That's already the part of the reservoir
property.
Yes. Okay.
Oh, that's acreage. Oh, take it back.
This is basically just connecting the dots
between what we already own and the right
of way and the.
Got it right.
I missed that.
I do want to reiterate something that Will
said earlier, though.
We.
We're get looking for the head nod so that
we can make applications, start this
process. It takes some time to work
through it with them. And if they say yes
to it and allow us to go forward, we'll
still have to go through some easement
acquisition. So there's this big of an
easement there. We're talking about being
right on the edge. Just in time inside of
it. We would still likely have to go back
and negotiate that easement for that
portion of the water line, even within the
TVA easement, because it's likely only
been negotiated to this point as an
electrical easement. And so we'd have to
get the water easement stacked on top of
that. So there still would be some outlay.
That's why we want to start the
conversation now. So we're getting all
this stuff in place as we get ready to
ramp up for construction. This just will
save us a lot of time. Time later.
I think you got head nods tonight. Go get
after it.
Thank you.
Last item for the evening discussion on a
legislative agenda. Mr. Napier.
Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the
board, this is staff's attempt to
understand the direction that you have as
it relates to engaging during the
legislation session that we're currently
in. Pursuant to what we would recommend
you consider for your priorities of the
legislative efforts of the city. This
would be super helpful for staff to
understand so that, number one, we can
follow your lead and carry out the
dialogue to hopefully move forward with
respect to these important items, but also
with regard to items that you may not see
on the list that you would like to have
considered. As we attempt to advocate and
work with both you and the legislators
that represent us in the, in the assembly
to hopefully do good things from a
legislative standpoint over the next
throughout the session. And so with that,
if there are any questions or directions
otherwise, we'd be happy to entertain
those.
Mr. Napier, do you want to kind of clip
through them one by one, just as a
highlight of what, what the legislative
action would be?
Absolutely. I can do that, you, Honor.
Thank you. Pertaining to the tax split
with cities and towns, as it relates to
the historic rate of shared sales tax, we
are hopeful that we can advocate for
restoring that rate to the full 7% versus
just what's allocated currently to the 6%.
That's what that first bullet entails. The
second bullet entails the idea of giving
more flexibility to the single article tax
cap that's currently in place, even if it
means being consistent with what it is the
state currently enjoys in the same taxing
dimension as it relates to transfer tax
receipts, we are hopeful that those
receipts can be shared back to counties as
well as cities and towns, if possible.
With regard to legislative ideas that may
come forward in that. In that respect, as
it relates to construction delivery, we
are hopeful that Design Build can be among
the toolbox that cities and towns use,
like is the case with construction manager
at risk. And as well, with respect to what
the state and IDB agencies currently enjoy
with Design Build, we are hopeful that
legislation that requires cities and towns
to participate in providing for cost
sharing for ambulance services be opposed,
wherein currently cities and towns do not
have to incur those types of cost sharing
requirements. And then finally, with
respect to efforts to make local elections
partisan, we're hopeful that the board
would see fit to oppose those efforts as
well. There's a couple items that we would
like to keep an eye out for that don't
appear to be so far being put forward in
draft bills. And you can see those two at
the bottom of your list in your memo.
Thank you. Mr. Napier. Just tack on that a
little bit. The governor gave his State of
the State address this evening. While
we're sitting here, I was hoping to find
the budget. His budget gets released with
the State of the State address. It's not
posted online yet. But as far as restoring
the state shared sales tax, the removal of
the single article tax cap, or a share of
the transfer tax receipts, I think what
Mr. Napier and Mr. Carter and myself have
all heard from a variety of lobbyists and
legislatures is those items are either
likely to all move together in tandem, but
the fiscal note on them is sufficient
enough that if it's not included in the
governor's budget, it's essentially a non
starter. I mean it's to the tune of around
$300 million in total. So if the governor
included in his budget, it's got a chance.
If the governor did not include it in his
budget, it's probably dead for this fiscal
year. But that should be available later
this evening or tomorrow around the IDB in
design build for municipalities, I believe
leave staff and myself have seen some
draft legislation. I know it was filed on
the senate side that would suggest it
would be available to municipalities of a
certain size for projects of a certain
dollar value and greater. The house filing
bill deadline is tomorrow. I've not seen a
house bill number on it yet. I don't know
if you have. Based off who the senate
sponsor is. I'd be shocked if there's not
a house bill companion with it. We do have
a lot of local noise from some of our
county commissioners, specifically our
Williamson county commissioners around
expecting municipalities to start to cost
share in ambulance services. By state law,
counties are required to provide ambulance
coverage. Williamson county has been here
for eight years or so and there are two
county commissioners in particular who are
very vocal about their opposition to that
state law and standard. So personally it
feels unlikely that a couple of county
commissioners are going to get a statewide
bill changed. But. But I think it's
something we definitely need to watch on
and given the added complexity of being in
two counties, it's. It's certainly going
to be important for us as well. But I'll
think of it as we talk here. Alderman
Fuquay, I'm sorry, I know what it is. So.
See, all that I had to do is call on you.
There were Sumner County, Murray County,
Williamson county, couple other counties
in West Tennessee that tried to push for a
bill that would give counties a seat at
annexation votes that any annexation
within the UGB after a municipal approval
would then go to a county for approval as
well. I've not seen a senate bill filed on
that. I've not seen a House bill filed on
that. Last I saw they were, they were
pursuing potential bill sponsors and, and
they were kind of down to the bottom of
the barrel. So I think we'll continue to
hear noise on that locally because Murray
and Williamson county commissioners are
talking that way. Candidates for Murray
county mayor are talking that way, but I
have not seen a bill on it, so. Alderman
Fuquay.
Thank you, Mayor. I am and haven't read
through it yet, but looking at information
from Mayor Sheila Butt, the impact fee
discussion has now gone away to a real
property transfer tax.
Yeah, that's the third bullet in the
middle. Yes.
Okay, missed that one.
Yeah. And that's got like $155 million
fiscal note. So if Governor Lee included
it, it's got a shot. If it doesn't, the
fiscal note will probably kill the bill.
Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I do think from a
personal view, I think all of the, the
things that were highlighted in the memo
are worthy of us putting some effort
behind. I think the one that I would
highlight is the share of transfer tax
receipts going toward to counties and
cities for road funding. And this allows
me an opportunity to get in my soapbox a
little bit. But the way that I've said
this multiple times, the way that the
state currently funds road projects is not
sustainable for the long term to meet the
meet the needs that Tennessee has if we're
going to be a state that continues to grow
and attract businesses, opportunities,
jobs, those way it currently is. And so
whether, I think this is a great, great
thing that is being put forward, this is,
goes in line with what was proposed by
Williamson Inc. And Williamson county last
term. But whether it's, whether it's this
or whether it's some other solution, the
state. We have to rethink what road
funding looks like at the state level in a
serious way because the longer that we
just punt the ball down the field, the
more the, the further and further the
state gets behind because, you know, we
all experience the needs that we have in
Spring Hill for transportation investment.
But the thing is that that's not unique to
any part of the state. Every part of the
state has the same needs that we're
feeling. And so there's really just a need
for us to, in a thoughtful, meaningful
way, change how road funding is happening
in Tennessee.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. I think
depending on who you ask, at TDOT, we have
somewhere between 58 billion and $77
billion worth of roadway infrastructure
needed today. One highlight that I was
able to find out, the governor's State of
the State address is he's going to
allocate an additional 425 million towards
roadway infrastructure. And 425 million is
a lot of money, certainly more money than
I have, but, but it doesn't make much of a
dent into 58 billion.
So
I think what direction Mr. Napier here is
looking for. If there are particular items
that we feel we want to formally support
or oppose, we could do so by resolution.
Not going to ask anybody to be put on the
spot tonight. And unless there's something
you just, just feel passionate about or
have a soapbox about. Vice Mayor Linville.
But I would advise you within, you know,
the next week to 10 days, if there are
particular items that you feel strong
about supporting or opposing, get that
information to Mr. Carter or Mr. Napier so
we can work our various sources and then
we can potentially have a resolution or
seven together for the voting session and
get these passed before we really start
working into committee hearings. Mr.
Carter, please.
I think it, it would be best to route
those through me and then
I can get them. Let's do that then.
Anything else on this? All right.
Roundtable discussion. Alderman Fuquay,
you said you had something for us?
Yes, Mayor. Thank you. Just want to bring
up in roundtable at BFAC, I brought some
last minute items and directives to Ms.
Holden I wanted to share with this board.
So we have talked And I guess Mr. Allen, I
probably should have reached out to you
today, but I got busy. My apologies. In
regards to the water and sewer project and
expansions, we have talked about a number
which is $200 million. We have not
formally started the process to really
hone in some actuals looking at some of
the documents that we've been sharing
through BFAC. I have some concerns and Mr.
Allen, we've talked about this, of what
we're going to be spending in water and
sewer and things like going up a TVA
easement that I expect is going to be
about $8 million million dollars. By some
simple math that I did on what we can do,
we're moving forward with conversations on
a library. We're moving, you know, along
with conversations about CSA and other
things. I am very afraid of getting to a
point to where water and sewer is going to
cap us on other projects. And without the
information of what those real costs will
be. I think that we're making some
decisions arbitrarily. I could be
completely wrong, but I think having that
in front of us and then making changes
with the market on hard numbers is a
little better than being speculative. Mr.
Allen, I'd love to hear your comments
towards that and maybe a timeline that we
could start honing in on some of those
things. That way when we make good
financial decisions, moving forward with
things like a library or a skate park or
anything else that's on the CIP list with
that I've heard some rumblings with csa,
which is essentially item number one for
water and sewer and getting that and that
we're having some difficulties getting
that funded adequately and appropriately.
So one of the ideas that I had and I
reached out to Mr. Carter today is water
and sewer is taking a space that Public
Works currently holds and they're having
to move to CSA as the probability of
wastewater dollars or wastewater funding
buying the real property from Public
Works. That way we can have this facility
over here fully constructed in its
capacity as identified in ceip. I know six
months ago when we talked, it seemed like
we have the funding sources and things
ready to roll. We're at a point where that
doesn't exist today. I want to move
forward with this. You know, some of you
got elected. It was identified in your
election process that you were go getters
and it was time to go in and make projects
happen. We're going to have to get
creative. So one of my Ideas, I think Mr.
Carter is going to call the comptroller to
see what the legal capabilities of that
transfer is for that real property, if we
can or cannot do it. Mr. Napier, I would
love to have a conversation soon in. In
kind of where the hiccup was and where
we're at. A little better communication
for the board ongoing of where we're at
with these things because they come to me
with questions, I can't answer them. And
that's not a position at all. And then
last thing is funding. We just spent three
and a half million dollars on a
construction team. We have two identified
projects, one that looks like half funded,
the Battle Creek that's fully funded, but
we need to look in its future for
different funding mechanisms to keep them
busy. So Ms. Holden has said that she's
going to funding that way when we're done
with one thing, we have the very next
thing thing to go to. But that's the
update from my ralphing session.
Thank you, Alderman Fuquay. If that is
legal and it passes an auditor smell test,
it is a very creative solution.
Can I respond to that real quick just to
save us some time?
You already know the answer.
Yeah, yeah. So a couple things. When we
went through the design process, um, it's
been a few months back, but Mr. Scroggins
approached me and said, hey, we need some
more room for the fleet building and some
things like that as we were looking at the
best layout of the site. So Water and
Sewer actually gave up their portion of
the site so that Public Works could take
on more of what they needed and
accommodated over there. So in the current
proposed plan and how things are going
forward, Water and Sewer has no
involvement with that property whatsoever.
So I don't know how you could justify us
paying a portion of the building
construction when we have no intention of
being out there, period. What we have
offered is to assist with some in house
construction on the water lines to serve
the site as well. As we had quite a series
of conversations about trying to do the
same thing on the sewer. We have some
concerns about some of the sewer. Sewer
construction. So I believe that's going to
be subbed out to a contractor, still be
obviously watched by Mr. Scroggins and his
team as they do it. But I had offered that
the water and sewer fund would still pay
for that portion of the construction to at
least offset that cost. So there's some
things that we'll have to do to make sure
that that's done properly, that that's
certainly okay, but we would have no
justification to offset the. The vertical
construction because we're not planning to
be part of it.
Correct. Just to give you a little clarity
on where I was going, so Public Works is
relocating over there, leaving what I
estimate by Google maps about 19 and a
half acres for the sewer expansion. So the
transfer of sewer funds would go for the
purchase of the 19 and a half acres public
works currently utilizes.
Spring Hill water would buy 19 and a half
acres from public Works. Public Works,
where Public Works is currently
located on the site that Spring Hill Water
already owns.
Like I said, if it's legal and passes an
audit test, it's potentially a really
creative solution.
I'll make sure and bring my boxing gloves
for that meeting.
Again, creative, but
we.
We have a problem on our hands and looking
for a solution no matter what it takes.
I'm up. I'm open to all suggestions and I.
I would expect that everybody in the room
be too.
Alderman Hartwell, Alderman Werner,
Alderman Jimenez.
Thank you, Mayor. I'm just going to
introduce everyone to my little pet peeve
that I have. It's regarding, well,
business owners. Watch this. If you have
an American flag in front of your office
or your building, please take care of it.
If it's not serviceable any longer, please
pull it down. I get to drive to my office
each and every day, and I see many, many
flags that should have been taken down
long, long ago. An American flag is not
there to be a decoration. An American flag
represents something. It represents
sacrifice from people who have made
sacrifice, people who. Who will make
sacrifice, and people that do sacrifice.
To have a representation of that poorly
taken care of doesn't mean you don't care.
It just means you may have forgot that you
put it out there. So do me a favor. If
you're watching this, take a chance.
Tomorrow, go out, take a look at my. At
your flag. I know mine's in good shape.
And ask yourself, is it discolored? Is it
torn? Is it ripped? Is it hung properly?
And if the answer is no, pull it down and
replace it. If the answer is, I don't
know, the Internet will tell you. Or make
a phone call if you need to retire a flag.
I know there's boxes here. There's boxes
at every fire station. I have a box.
Please, just do this country a service in
your state of service and make sure that
your flags are serviceable. That's all I
got.
Thank you, Alderman Jimenez, Alderman
Canapari.
Thanks, Mayor. I've got two Items. First
for Mr. Allen. If it's our land and Public
works was there all this time, get the
back rent if this goes through. That's
one. I mean, come on, you're the landlord.
All right, so number two would be. I want
to set the record straight. I said
something at the last meeting, the last
BOMA meeting in December about my request
for public information. I said something
to the effect that I was still waiting for
some of the information. I didn't get it
all. Well, Mr. Carter and Ms. Goad
followed up with me a couple weeks ago, or
maybe last week, and pointed out the fact
that, well, I hadn't read it carefully.
Everything was there in the packet that I
got back. So I want to make a public
apology to Ms. Goad and Ms. Stahl for the
excellent work they did, hard work putting
that package together, which was. I forget
how many emails it was, but it was a lot,
and I'll do better in the future.
Thank you for saying that, Alderman
Canapari. Alderman Davis.
Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to give
the city and our board an update on our.
This is a little bit of a happy note of
our Fourth of July celebration that's
coming up that the Spring Hill Chamber is
taking the charge on for us. I just wanted
to say our location set fire. And Brent's
part of this, too. Firework company Set
Set Entertainment Secured. We did. They
did apply for the grant, which was denied.
They're going to apply again for the
grant. Sponsorship and donation
opportunities are becoming available.
Signage is going out around town and to
hoas, and you can also drop by the Spring
Hill Chamber, if you would. Like to
partake in that and help donate towards
this celebration. I know they're trying to
raise funds for it, so we're excited to
see how that is and to celebrate together
as a community America's birthday.
Thank you, Alderman Davis. Alderman
Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. I just had a real quick
thank you to all of our leadership, our
staff, all the hard workers that really
did just a fantastic job as we've tried to
navigate through this, I will call it an
unprecedented because it's been more years
than I care to remember since we had an
ice storm like that. But just thank you so
much for your dedication to the city. I
want to thank the citizens that reached
out to other neighbors that lost power,
maybe they didn't have power. Just a real,
total effort on this city being able to
take on the storm, do what we could, and
try to get things remedied as quickly as
possible. For that, I just want to say
thank you for all that work, and we really
appreciate what you do each and every day,
but in times like that, even thank you
more. I know thank you is probably not
enough, but thank you more for how you
step up time in and time out when the city
is in need. So thank you.
Thank you, Alderman Murray. Vice Mayor
Linville.
Thank you, Mayor. I just want to piggyback
on one of Alderman Fuquay's comments. We
talked about this briefly at BFAC as well,
but in regards to some of the sewer
discussions, moving, public works, all
those sorts of things, I don't think it's
a secret. You know, we talked about it for
an ext. In a period of time today with
multiple tenant improvements that the
sewer, you know, expansion project,
Project Swift, is a critical path for us
as a city. And I know that we have. We're
aligning resources towards that end,
Spartan team, all that sort of stuff. But
if there's anything that. That we need
from a board level to help accelerate the
process and help to make sure that we're
keeping things on track. Certainly want to
be kept coming, kept apprised of that, and
make sure that our staff has all the
resources that we need available to make
sure that we deliver that project as
quickly as we can for our citizens. And so
I know that's been kind of a clear
direction of the board. And again, just
want to reiterate if there is anything
else that we can do or anything we need to
be aware of.